'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS1993 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS1993
\- 4kbit Memory iButton
.SH SYNOPSIS
Non-volatile memory.
.PP
.B 06
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B memory
|
.B pages/page.[0-15|ALL]
|
.so man3/standard_mini.3so
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.TP
.I 06
DS1996
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS memory
.I read-write, binary
.br
512 bytes of memory.
.SS pages/page.0 ... pages/page.15 pages/page.ALL
.I read-write, binary
.br
Memory is split into 16 pages of 32 bytes each.
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the pages. Each page is accessed sequentially.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.so man3/standard.3so
.SH ALARMS
None.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.so man3/description.3so
.SS DS1993
The
.B DS1993 (3)
is an iButton with static memory. Data is read/written with error checking (transparent to the user).
The
.B DS1992
,
.B DS1993
,
.B DS1995
, and
.B DS1996
differ in their function by the amount of on-board memory they possess. (The internal protocols are slightly different, but the
.I OWFS
system handles this automatically.)
.SH ADDRESSING
.so man3/addressing.3so
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS1992-DS1993.pdf
.SH SEE ALSO
.so man3/seealso.3so
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://www.owfs.org
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
