'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2006 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS1825 3  2006 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS1825
\- Programmable Resolution 1-Wire Digital Thermometer with ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
Thermometer with hardware address pins.
.PP
.B 3B
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B fasttemp
|
.B power
|
.B prog_addr
|
.B temperature
|
.B temphigh
|
.B templow
|
.so standard_mini
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.PP
.I 3B
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS fasttemp
.I read-only, floating point
.br
Low resolution but faster temperature reading by the chip. (~9 bits). Units are selected from the invoking command line. See
.B owfs(1)
or
.B owhttpd(1)
for choices. Default is Celsius.
Conversion takes 94 msec.
.SS power
.I read-only,yes-no
.br
Is the chip powered externally (=1) or from the parasitically from the data bus (=0)?
.SS prog_addr
.I read-only, 0-15
.br
A distiguishing feature of the
.B DS1825 (3)
is the ability to set hardware pins for an address (0-15). This is an alternative to the unique 64-bit
.I address
that isw set in the factory.
.SS temperature
.I read-only, floating point
.br
.I Temperature
read by the chip at high resolution (~12 bits). Units are selected from the invoking command line. See
.B owfs(1)
or
.B owhttpd(1)
for choices. Default is Celsius.
Conversion takes 750 msec.
.SS temphigh templow
.I read-write. floating point
.br
Temperature limits for alarms. Units are selected from the invoking command line. See
.B owfs(1)
or
.B owhttpd(1)
for choices. Default is Celsius.
.br
Note that alarms are not implemented.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.so standard
.SH ALARMS
None implemented.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.so description
.SS DS1825
The
.B DS1825 (3)
is one of several available 1-wire temperature sensors. Alternatives are the
.B DS18S20 (3),
.B DS18B20 (3),
and
.B DS1822 (3)
as well as temperature/voltage measurements in the
.B DS2436 (3)
and
.B DS2438 (3).
For truly versatile temperature measurements, see the protean
.B DS1921 (3) Thermachron (3).
.PP
Although the
.B DS1825 (3)
can select between 4 resolutions, this program simplifies the interface by only implementing the fastest/roughest and slowest/best.
.SH ADDRESSING
.so addressing
.SH DATASHEET
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS1825.pdf
.SH SEE ALSO
.so seealso
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
