'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS18B20 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS18B20
- Programmable Resolution 1-Wire Digital Thermometer
.SH SYNOPSIS
Thermometer.
.PP
.B 28
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.so temperatures_mini
.B die
|
.B power
|
.B temphigh
|
.B templow
|
.B trim
|
.B trimblanket
|
.B trimvalid
|
.so standard_mini
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.PP
.I 28
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.so temperatures
.SS die
.I read-only,ascii
.br
Two character manufacturing die lot. "B6" "B7" or "C2"
.SS power
.I read-only,yes-no
.br
Is the chip powered externally (=1) or from the parasitically from the data bus (=0)?
.SS temphigh templow
.I read-write. floating point
.br
Temperature limits for alarms. Units are selected from the invoking command line. See
.B owfs(1)
or
.B owhttpd(1)
for choices. Default is Celsius.
.br
Note that alarms are not implemented.
.SS trim
.I read-write,unsigned integer
.br
32 bit trim value in the EEPROM of the chip. When written, it does not seem to read back. Used for a production problem in the B7
.I die.
See AN247.pdf
.br
Read allowed for all chips. Only the B7 chips can be written.
.SS trimblanket
.I read-write,yes-no
.br
Writing non-zero (=1) puts a default trim value in the chip. Only applied to the B7
.I die.
Reading will be true (non-zero) if trim value is the blanket value. Again, only B7 chips will register true, and since the written trim values cannot be read, this value may have little utility.
.SS trimvalid
.I read-only,yes-no
.br
Is the 
.I trim 
value in the valid range? Non-zero if true, which includes all non-B7 chips.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.so standard
.SH ALARMS
None implemented.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.so description
.SS DS18B20
The
.B DS18B20 (3)
is one of several available 1-wire temperature sensors. It is the replacement for the
.B DS18S20 (3)
Alternatives are
.B DS1822 (3)
as well as temperature/vlotage measurements in the
.B DS2436 (3)
and
.B DS2438 (3).
For truly versatile temperature measurements, see the protean
.B DS1921 (3) Thermachron (3).
.br
Although the
.B DS18B20 (3)
can select between 4 resolutions, this program simplifies the interface by only implementing the fastest/roughest and slowest/best.
.SH ADDRESSING
.so addressing
.SH DATASHEET
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS18B20.pdf
.SH SEE ALSO
.so seealso
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
