'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS18S20 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS18S20
- High-Precision 1-Wire Digital Thermometer
.SH SYNOPSIS
Thermometer.
.HP
.B 10
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B die
|
.B power
|
.B temperature
|
.B temphigh
|
.B templow
|
.B trim
|
.B trimblanket
|
.B trimvalid
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
10
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS die
.I read-only,ascii
.br
Two character manufacturing die lot. "B6" "B7" or "C2"
.SS power
.I read-only,yes-no
.br
Is the chip powered externally (1) or from the parasitically from the data bus (0)?
.SS temperature
.I read-only, floating point
.br
.I Temperature
read by the chip at high resolution (~12 bits). Units are selected from the invoking command line. See
.B owfs(1)
or
.B owhttpd(1)
for choices. Default is Celsius.
Conversion takes 750 msec.
.SS temphigh templow
.I read-write. floating point
.br
Temperature limits for alarms. Units are selected from the invoking command line. See
.B owfs(1)
or
.B owhttpd(1)
for choices. Default is Celsius.
.br
Note that alarms are not implemented.
.SS trim
.I read-write,unsigned integer
.br
32 bit trim value in the EEPROM of the chip. When written, it does not seem to read back. Used for a production problem in the B7
.I die.
See AN247.pdf
.br
Read allowed for all chips. Only the B7 chips can be written.
.SS trimblanket
.I read-write,yes-no
.br
Writing non-zero (1) puts a default trim value in the chip. Only applied to the B7
.I die.
Reading will be true (non-zero) if trim value is the blanket value. Again, only B7 chips will register true, and since the written trim values cannot be read, this value may have little utility.
.SS trimvalid
.I read-only,yes-no
.br
Is the 
.I trim 
value in the valid range? Non-zero if true, which includes all non-B7 chips.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.SS address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceeding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS present
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
None implemented.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a 1-wire bus device. The 1-wire bus is a simple networking system created by Dalla Semiconductor that allows low-cost low-power communication over a single wire (plus ground). Power is often delivered "parasitically" from the same data line. Each device has a unique unalterable ID and can be individually addressed.
.PP
The
.B DS18S20
is one a several available 1-wire temperature sensors. It has been largely replaced by the
.B DS18B20
and
.B DS1822
as well as temperature/vlotage measurements in the
.B DS2436
and
.B DS2438.
For truly versatile temperature measurements, see the protean
.B DS1921 Thermachron.
.SH ADDRESSING
All 1-wire devices are factory assigned a unique 64-bit address. This address is of the form:
.TP
.B Family Code
8 bits
.TP
.B Address
48 bits
.TP
.B CRC
8 bits
.IP
.PP
Addressing under OWFS is in hexidecimal, of form:
.IP
.B 01.123456789ABC
.PP
where
.B 01
is an example 8-bit family code, and
.B 12345678ABC
is an example 48 bit address.
.PP
The dot is optional, and the CRC code can included. If included, it must be correct.
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS18S20.pdf
.SH FILES
.TP
libow.so
Library providing most of the OWFS system. Bus master control, data parsing, etc.
.TP
owfs
Filesystem implementation. User space, using the FUSE kernel module.
.TP
owhttpd
Web server implementation of the OWFS system.
.SH SEE ALSO
owfs(1)
owhttpd(1)
DS18B20(3)
DS1822(3)
DS2401(3)
DS2409(3)
DS2436(3)
DS2438(3)
DS2502(3)
DS2505(3)
DS2506(3)
DS1992(3)
DS1993(3)
DS1995(3)
DS1996(3)
LCD(3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
