'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS1921-Thermacron 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS1921
- Thermacron
.SH SYNOPSIS
Thermacron temperature logging iButton.
.HP
.B 21
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B alarm_dow
|
.B alarm_hour
|
.B alarm_minute
|
.B alarm_second
|
.B alarm_trigger
|
.B date
|
.B histogap
|
.B histogram.[0-62|ALL]
|
.B histotemp.[0-62|ALL]
|
.B logdate.[0-2047|ALL]
|
.B logtemp.[0-2047|ALL]
|
.B logtime.[0-2047|ALL]
|
.B memory
|
.B mission_samples
|
.B page.[0-15|ALL]
|
.B running
|
.B samplerate
|
.B temperature
|
.B temprangehigh
|
.B temprangelow
|
.B tempresolution
|
.B total_samples
|
.B version
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.TP
21
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS date
.I read-write, ascii
.br
26 character date representation of the
.I counter
value. Increments once per second while
.I running
.br
Setting
.I date
to a null string will put the current system time.
.br
Accepted date formats are:
.br
  Sat[urday] March 12 12:23:59 2001
.br
  Apr[il] 4 9:34:56 2002
.br
  3/23/04 23:34:57
.br
  current locale setting (your system's format)
.SS version
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Thermacron sub-type.
.SS humidity
.I read-only, floating point
.br
Relative humidity, as percent (1-100 scale).
.br
The
.B DS2438
actually does not read humidity, but a widely available and publicised circuit based on the chip, does. See the datasheets for details.
.SS Ienable
.I read-write, unsigned integer
.br
Status of
.I current
monitoring. When enabled, current sensing is performed 36.41 times/second. Values of
.I Ienable
are:
.TP
.B 0
no current conversion
.TP
.B 1
current conversion enabled
.TP
.B 2
current conversion and accumulation
.TP
.B 3
current conversion and accumulation with EEPROM backup
.SS offset
.I read-write, integer
.br
Correction for
.I current
readings. A value between -256 and 255. See the datasheet for details. Should be set to the negative of a true zero
.I current
reading.
.SS page.0 ... page.7 page.ALL
.I read-write, binary
.br
Memory is split into 8 pages of 8 bytes each. Only the pages 3-7 are really available, and some of that appears to be reserved. See the datasheet for details.
.br
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the pages. Each page is accessed sequentially.
.SS temperature
.I read-only, floating point
.br
.I Temperature
read by the chip at high resolution (~13 bits). Units are selected from the invoking command line. See
.B owfs (3)
or
.B owhttp (3)
for choises. Default is Celsius.
Conversion takes ~20 msec.
.SS VAD VDD
.I read-only, floating point
.br
Voltage read (~10 bits) at the one of the chip's two supply voltages. Range VDD= 2.4V to 10V, VAD=1.5 to 10V.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.SS address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceeding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS present
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
None.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a 1-wire bus device. The 1-wire bus is a simple networking system created by Dalla Semiconductor that allows low-cost low-power communication over a single wire (plus ground). Power is often delivered "parasitically" from the same data line. Each device has a unique unalterable ID and can be individually addressed.
.PP
The
.B DS1921
is an iButton device with many intriguing functions. Essentially it monitors temperature, giving both a log of readings, and a histogram of temperature ranges. The specification is somewhat complex, but OWFS hides many of the implementation details.
.PP
While on a
.I mission
the
.B DS1921
records temperature readings in a 2048-sample log and adds the to 62-bin histogram. more complete form of the
.B DS2438
battery chip. Current sensing is availble, but not implemented. The major advantage compared to the
.B DS2436
is that two voltages can be read, allowing correcting circuit nmeasurements to supply voltage and temperature.
.SH ADDRESSING
All 1-wire devices are factory assigned a unique 64-bit address. This address is of the form:
.TP
.B Family Code
8 bits
.TP
.B Address
48 bits
.TP
.B CRC
8 bits
.IP
.PP
Addressing under OWFS is in hexidecimal, of form:
.IP
.B 01.123456789ABC
.PP
where
.B 01
is an example 8-bit family code, and
.B 12345678ABC
is an example 48 bit address.
.PP
The dot is optional, and the CRC code can included. If included, it must be correct.
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2438.pdf
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/an/humsensor.pdf
.SH FILES
.TP
libow.so
Library providing most of the OWFS system. Bus master control, data parsing, etc.
.TP
owfs
Filesystem implementation. User space, using the FUSE kernel module.
.TP
owhttpd
Web server implementation of the OWFS system.
.SH SEE ALSO
owfs(3)
owhttpd(3)
DS18S20(3)
DS18B20(3)
DS1822(3)
DS2502(3)
DS2401(3)
DS2409(3)
DS2436(3)
DS1992(3)
DS1993(3)
DS1995(3)
DS1996(3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
