'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS1992 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS1992
- 1kbit Memory iButton
.SH SYNOPSIS
Non-volatile memory.
.HP
.B 08
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B memory
|
.B pages/page.[0-3|ALL]
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.TP
08
DS1996
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS memory
.I read-write, binary
.br
128 bytes of memory.
.SS pages/page.0 ... pages/page.3 pages/page.ALL
.I read-write, binary
.br
Memory is split into 4 pages of 32 bytes each.
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the pages. Each page is accessed sequentially.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.SS address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceeding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS present
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
None.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.so description
.SS
DS1992
The
.B DS1992 (3)
is an iButton with static memory. Data is read/written with error checking (transparent to the user).
The
.B DS1992
,
.B DS1993
,
.B DS1995
, and
.B DS1996
differ in their function by the amount of on-board memory they possess. (The internal protocols are slightly different, but the
.I OWFS
system handles this automatically.)
.SH ADDRESSING
.so addressing
.SH DATASHEET
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS1992-DS1993.pdf
.SH SEE ALSO
.so seealso
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
