'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS2406 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
DS2406 \- Dual Addressable Switch with 1kbit Memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
Dual Switch, Write-once Memory
.PP
.B 12
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B channels
|
.B latch.[A|B|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B memory
|
.B pages/page.[0-3|ALL]
|
.B PIO.[A|B|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B power
|
.B sensed.[A|B|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B set_alarm
|
.B TAI8570/[sibling|temperature|pressure]
|
.B T8A/volt.[0-7,ALL]
.so standard_mini.3so
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.PP
.I 12
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS channels
.I read-only, unsigned integer
.br
Is this a 1 or 2 channel switch? The
.I DS2406
comes in two forms, one has only one
.I PIO
pin (PIO.A). Returns 1 or 2.
.SS latch.A latch.B latch.ALL latch.BYTE
.I read-write, yes-no
.br
The activity latch is set to 1 with the first negative or positive edge detected on the associated PIO channel.
.br
Writing any data will clear latch for all (both)) channels. This is a hardware "feature" of the chip.
.br
.I ALL
references both channels simultaneously, comma separated
.br
.I BYTE
references both channels simultaneously as a single byte, with channel A in bit 0.
.SS memory
.I read-write, binary
.br
128 bytes of non-volatile, write-once data.
.SS pages/page.0 ... pages/page.3 pages/page.ALL
.I read-write, binary
.br
Memory organized as 4 pages or 32 bytes. Memory is write-once.
.br
.I ALL
is the aggregate of all 4 pages, sequentially accessed.
.SS PIO.A PIO.B PIO.ALL PIO.BYTE
.I read-write, yes-no
.br
State of the open-drain output (
.I PIO
) pin. 0 = non-conducting (off), 1 = conducting (on).
.br
Writing zero will turn off the switch, non-zero will turn on the switch. Reading the
.I PIO
state will return the switch setting (flipflop in the data sheet). To determine the actual logic level at the switch, refer to the
.I sensed
property.
.br
Note that the actual pin setting for the chip uses the opposite polarity -- 0 for conducting, 1 for non-conducting. However, to turn a connected device on (i.e. to deliver power) we use the software concept of 1 as conducting or "on".
.br
.I ALL
references both channels simultaneously, comma separated.
.br
.I BYTE
references both channels simultaneously as a single byte, with channel A in bit 0.
.SS power
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the
.I DS2406
powered parasitically =0 or separately on the Vcc pin =1
.SS sensed.A sensed.B sensed.ALL sensed.BYTE
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Logic level at the
.I PIO
pin. 0 = ground. 1 = high (~2.4V - 5V ). Really makes sense only if the
.I PIO
state is set to zero (off), else will read zero.
.br
.I ALL
references both channels simultaneously, comma separated.
.br
.I BYTE
references both channels simultaneously as a single byte, with channel A in bit 0.
.SS set_alarm
.I read-write, unsigned integer (0-331)
.br
A number consisting of three digits XYZ, where:
.TP
X
channel selection
.br
.I 0
neither
.br
.I 1
A only
.br
.I 2
B only
.br
.I 3
A or B
.TP
Y
source selection
.br
.I 0
undefined
.br
.I 1
latch
.br
.I 2
PIO
.br
.I 3
sensed
.TP
Z
polarity selection
.br
.I 0
low
.br
.I 1
high
.PP
All digits will be truncated to the 0-3 (or 0-1) range. Leading zeroes are optional (and may be problematic for some shells).
.PP
Example:
.TP
311
Responds on Conditional Search when either latch.A or latch.B (or both) are set to 1.
.TP
<100
Never responds to Conditional Search.
.SS TAI8570/
.I subdirectory
.br
Properties when the
.I DS2406 (3)
is built into a
.I TAI8570.
.br
If the
.I DS2406 (3)
is not part of a
.I TAI8570
or is not the controlling switch, attempts to read will result in an error.
.SS TAI8570/pressure
.I read-only, floating point
.br
Barometric
.I pressure
in millibar.
.SS TAI8570/sibling
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Hex address of the
.I DS2406 (3)
paired with this chip in a
.I TAI8570.
.SS TAI8570/temperature
.I read-only, floating-point
.br
Ambient
.I temperature
measured by the
.I TAI8570
in prevailing temperature units (Centigrade is the default).
.SS T8A/volt.[0-7|ALL]
.I read-only, floating-point
.br
Uses the T8A (by
.I Embedded Data Systems
) 8 channel voltage converter. Units in volts, 0 to 5V range. 12 bit resolution.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.so standard.3so
.SH ALARMS
Use the
.I set_alarm
property to set the alarm triggering criteria.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.so description.3so
.SS DS2406
The
.B DS2406 (3)
allows control of other devices, like LEDs and relays. It superceeds the
.B DS2405
and
.B DS2407
Alternative switches include the
.B DS2408
or even
.B DS2450
.br
The
.B DS2407
is practically identical to the
.I DS2406
except for a strange
.I hidden
mode. It is supported just like the
.B DS2406
.SS TAI8570
The
.I TAI-8570 Pressure Sensor
is based on a 1-wire composite device by
.I AAG Electronica.
The
.I TAI8570
uses 2
.I DS2406 (3)
chips, paired as a reader and writer to synthesize 3-wire communication. Only 1 of the
.I DS2406 (3)
will allow
.I temperature
or
.I pressure
readings. It's mate's address can be shown as
.I sibling.
.PP
The
.I TAI8570
uses the
.I Intersema MS5534a
pressure sensor, and stores calibration and temperature compensation values internally.
.PP
Design and code examples are available from AAG Electronica http://aag.com.mx
, specific permission to use code in a GPL product was given by Mr. Aitor Arrieta of AAG and Dr. Simon Melhuish of OWW.
.SH ADDRESSING
.so addressing.3so
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2406.pdf
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2407.pdf
.br
http://www.embeddeddatasystems.com/page/EDS/PROD/IO/T8A
.br
http://oww.sourceforge.net/hardware.html#bp
.SH SEE ALSO
.so seealso.3so
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://www.owfs.org
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
