'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS2423 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS2423
- 4kbit 1-Wire RAM with Counter
.SH SYNOPSIS
RAM and counters.
.HP
.B 1D
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B counters.[A|B|ALL]
|
.B memory
|
.B pages/page.[0-15|ALL]
|
.B pages/count.[0-15|ALL]
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.HP
.SH FAMILY CODE
1D
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS counters.A counters.B counters.ALL
.I read-only, unsigned integer
.br
Debounced external counter. Associated with RAM
.I page.14
and
.I page.15
. Counter increments only. It is reset when the chip loses power.
.br
.I ALL
returns the two values, separated by a comma. They are read sequentially.
.SS memory
.I read-write, binary
.br
512 bytes of memory.
.SS pages/page.0 ... pages/page.15 pages/page.ALL
.I read-write, binary
.br
Memory is split into 16 pages of 32 bytes each. Memory is RAM, contents are lost when power is lost.
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the pages. Each page is accessed sequentially.
.SS pages/count.0 ... pages/count.15 pages/count.ALL
.I read-only, unsigned integer
.br

Write access to each page of memory. Actually only
.I page.12
and
.I page.13
have write counters.
.br
.I page14
and
.I page.15
\'s counters are associated with the external
.I counters.A
and
.I counters.B
triggers.
.br
The value 0xFFFFFFFF is returned for
.I pages/count.0
through
.I pages/count.11
.br
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the counters, comma separated. Each page is accessed sequentially.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.SS address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceeding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS present
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
None.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a 1-wire bus device. The 1-wire bus is a simple networking system created by Dalla Semiconductor that allows low-cost low-power communication over a single wire (plus ground). Power is often delivered "parasitically" from the same data line. Each device has a unique unalterable ID and can be individually addressed.
.PP
The
.B DS2423
is used for its counters. The internal counters (associated with pages 12 and 13) can detect memory tampering.
.PP
The external counters A and B page been used in circuit design, like anometer.
.I OWFS
system handles this automatically.
.SH ADDRESSING
All 1-wire devices are factory assigned a unique 64-bit address. This address is of the form:
.TP
.B Family Code
8 bits
.TP
.B Address
48 bits
.TP
.B CRC
8 bits
.IP
.PP
Addressing under OWFS is in hexidecimal, of form:
.IP
.B 01.123456789ABC
.PP
where
.B 01
is an example 8-bit family code, and
.B 12345678ABC
is an example 48 bit address.
.PP
The dot is optional, and the CRC code can included. If included, it must be correct.
.SH DATASHEET
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2423.pdf
.SH FILES
.TP
libow.so
Library providing most of the OWFS system. Bus master control, data parsing, etc.
.TP
owfs
Filesystem implementation. User space, using the FUSE kernel module.
.TP
owhttpd
Web server implementation of the OWFS system.
.SH SEE ALSO
owfs(3)
owhttpd(3)
DS2502(3)
DS2409(3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
