'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS2408 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS2408
- 1-Wire 8 Channel Addressable Switch
.SH SYNOPSIS
8 port switch
.PP
.B 29
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B latch.[0-7|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B LCD_M/[clear|home|screen|message]
|
.B LCD_H/[clear|home|yxscreen|screen|message|onoff]
|
.B PIO.[0-7|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B power
|
.B sensed.[0-7|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B strobe
|
.B por
|
.B set_alarm
|
.so standard_mini
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.PP
.I 29
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS latch.0 ... latch.7 latch.ALL latch.BYTE
.I read-write, binary
.br
The 8 pins (PIO) latch a bit when their state changes, either externally, or through a write to the pin. 
.br
Reading the
.I latch
property indicates that the latch has been set.
.br
Writing "true" (non-zero) to ANY 
.I latch 
will reset them all. (This is the hardware design).
.br
.I ALL
is all 
.I latch 
states, accessed simultaneously, comma separated.
.br
.I BYTE
references all channels simultaneously as a single byte. Channel 0 is bit 0.
.SS LCD_H/clear LCD_M/clear
.I write-only, yes-no
.br
Clears an LCD screen controlled by a
.I DS2408
using published designs.
.br
.I clear
will initialize and clear the screen.
.br
.I LCD_H
uses the Hobby-Boards design of Erik Vickery (see
.I DATASHEET
)
.br
.I LCD_M
uses the Maxim public domain design (see
.I DATASHEET
)
.SS LCD_H/home LCD_M/home
.I write-only, yes-no
.br
Positions the cursor of an LCD screen controlled by a
.I DS2408
using published designs. The screen must have been initialized with the
.I clear
or
.I message
command first.
.br
.I home
will set the cursor to the upper left position, but leave the current text intact.
.br
.I LCD_H
uses the Hobby-Boards design of Erik Vickery (see
.I DATASHEET
)
.br
.I LCD_M
uses the Maxim public domain design (see
.I DATASHEET
)
.SS LCD_H/screen LCD_M/screen
.I write-only, ascii text
.br
Writes to an LCD screen controlled by a
.I DS2408
using published designs. The screen must have been initialized with the
.I clear
or
.I message
command first.
.br
Text will appear starting at the current location.
.br
.I LCD_H
uses the Hobby-Boards design of Erik Vickery (see
.I DATASHEET
)
.br
.I LCD_M
uses the Maxim public domain design (see
.I DATASHEET
)
.SS LCD_H/yxscreen
.I write-only, ascii text
.br
Writes to an LCD screen controlled by a
.I DS2408
using published designs. Like 
.I LCD_H/screen 
but starting at a particular screen position.
.TP 
2 binary bytes
The two first characters of the passed string have the line and row: 
e.g. "\\x02\\x04string" perl string writes "string" at line 2 column 4.
.TP 
ascii 2,12:
Two numbers giving line and row:  Separate with a comma and end with a colon
e.g. "2,4:string" writes "string" at line 2 column 4.
.TP 
ascii 12:
Single column number on the (default) first line:  End with a colon
e.g. "12:string" writes "string" at line 1 column 12.
.P
The positions are 1-based (i.e. the first position is 1,1).
.SS LCD_H/onoff
.I write-only, unsigned
.br
Sets several screen display functions. The selected choices should be added together.
.TP
4
Display on
.TP
2
Cursor on
.TP
1
Cursor blinking
.SS LCD_H/message LCD_M/message
.I write-only, ascii text
.br
Writes to an LCD screen controlled by a
.I DS2408
using published designs.
.br
.I message
combines the actions of
.I clear, home
and
.I screen
so is the easiest way to display a message.
.br
.I LCD_H
uses the Hobby-Boards design of Erik Vickery (see
.I DATASHEET
)
.br
.I LCD_M
uses the Maxim public domain design (see
.I DATASHEET
)
.SS PIO.0 ...  PIO.7 PIO.ALL PIO.BYTE
.I read-write, yes-no
.br
State of the open-drain output (
.I PIO
) pin. 0 = non-conducting (off), 1 = conducting (on).
.br
Writing zero will turn off the switch, non-zero will turn on the switch. Reading the
.I PIO
state will return the switch setting. To determine the actual logic level at the switch, refer to the
.I sensed.0 ... sensed.7 sensed.ALL sensed.BYTE
property.
.br
.I ALL
references all channels simultaneously, comma separated.
.br
.I BYTE
references all channels simultaneously as a single byte. Channel 0 is bit 0.
.SS power
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the
.I DS2408
powered parasitically (0) or separately on the Vcc pin (1)?
.SS sensed.0 ... sensed.7 sensed.ALL
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Logic level at the
.I PIO
pin. 0 = ground. 1 = high (~2.4V - 5V ). Really makes sense only if the
.I PIO
state is set to zero (off), else will read zero.
.br
.I ALL
references all channels simultaneously, comma separated.
.br
.I BYTE
references all channels simultaneously as a single byte. Channel 0 is bit 0.
.SS strobe
.I read-write, yes-no
.br
RSTZ Pin Mode Control. Configures RSTZ as either RST input or STRB output:
.TP
.I 0
configured as RST input (default)
.TP
.I 1
configured as STRB output
.PP
.SS por
.I read-write, yes-no
.br
Specifies whether the device has performed power-on reset. This bit can only
be cleared to 0 under software control. As long as this bit is 1 the device
will allways respond to a conditional search.
.SS set_alarm
.I read-write, integer unsigned (0-333333333)
.br
A number consisting of 9 digits XYYYYYYYY, where:
.TP
X
select source and logical term 
.br 
.I 0
PIO   OR 
.br 
.I 1
latch OR 
.br 
.I 2
PIO   AND 
.br 
.I 3
latch AND
.TP
Y
select channel and polarity
.br 
.I 0
Unselected (LOW) 
.br
.I 1
Unselected (HIGH) 
.br
.I 2
Selected    LOW 
.br
.I 3
Selected    HIGH
.PP
All digits will be truncated to the 0-3 range. Leading zeroes are optional. Low-order digit is channel 0.
.PP
Example:
.TP
100000033
Responds on Conditional Search when latch.1 or latch.0 are set to 1.
.TP
222000000
Responds on Conditional Search when sensed.7 and sensed.6 are set to 0.
.TP
000000000 (0)
Never responds to Conditional Search.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.so standard
.SH ALARMS
Use the
.I set_alarm
property to set the alarm triggering criteria.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.so description.3so
.SS DS2408
The
.B DS2408 (3)
allows control of other devices, like LEDs and relays. It extends the
.B DS2406
to 8 channels and includes memory.
.br
Alternative switches include the
.B DS2406, DS2407
and even
.B DS2450
.SH ADDRESSING
.so addressing.3so
.SH DATASHEET
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2408.pdf
.br
http://www.hobby-boards.com/catalog/howto_lcd_driver.php
.br
http://www.maxim-ic.com/appnotes.cfm/appnote_number/3286
.SH SEE ALSO
.so seealso.3so
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://www.owfs.org
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
