'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS2436 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS2436
- Battery ID/Monitor Chip
.SH SYNOPSIS
Temperature Voltage and Memory.
.HP
.B 1B
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B pages/page.[0-4|ALL]
|
.B temperature
|
.B volts
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.TP
1B
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS pages/page.0 ... pages/page.4 pages/page.ALL
.I read-write, binary
.br
Memory is split into 5 pages of 32 bytes each. Only the first 3 pages are really available, and some of that appears to be reserved. See the datasheet for details.
.br
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the pages. Each page is accessed sequentially.
.SS temperature
.I read-only, floating point
.br
.I Temperature
read by the chip at high resolution (~13 bits). Units are selected from the invoking command line. See
.B owfs(1)
or
.B owhttpd(1)
for choices. Default is Celsius.
Conversion takes ~20 msec.
.SS volts
.I read-only, floating point
.br
Voltage read (~10 bits) at the chip's supply voltage Vdd. Range 2.4V to 10V.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.SS address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceeding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS present
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
None.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.so description
.SS DS2436
The
.B DS2436 (3)
is a simpler form of the
.B DS2438
battery chip. It has no counter, and only one voltage sensor.
.SH ADDRESSING
.so addressing
.SH DATASHEET
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2436.pdf
.SH SEE ALSO
.so seealso
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
