'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS2413 3  2005 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS2413
- Dual Channel Addressable Switch
.SH SYNOPSIS
Dual Switch
.HP
.B 3A
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B latch.[A|B|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B PIO.[A|B|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B sensed.[A|B|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
3A
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS latch.A latch.B latch.ALL latch.BYTE
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Poorly documented feature of the chip. Apparently set to 1 routinely, and if different from
.PIO then a physical switch was triggered?
.I ALL
references both channels simultaneously, comma separated
.br
.I BYTE
references both channels simultaneously as a single byte, with channel A in bit 0.
.SS PIO.A PIO.B PIO.ALL PIO.BYTE
.I read-write, yes-no
.br
State of the open-drain output (
.I PIO
) pin. 0 = non-conducting (off), 1 = conducting (on).
.br
Writing zero will turn off the switch, non-zero will turn on the switch. Reading the
.I PIO
state will return the switch setting. To determine the actual logic level at the switch, refer to the
.I sensed
property.
.br
.I ALL
references both channels simultaneously, comma separated.
.br
.I BYTE
references both channels simultaneously as a single byte, with channel A in bit 0.
.SS sensed.A sensed.B sensed.ALL sensed.BYTE
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Logic level at the
.I PIO
pin. 0 = ground. 1 = high (~2.4V - 5V ). Really makes sense only if the
.I PIO
state is set to zero (off), else will read zero.
.br
.I ALL
references both channels simultaneously, comma separated.
.br
.I BYTE
references both channels simultaneously as a single byte, with channel A in bit 0.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.SS address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceeding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS present
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
Use the
.I set_alarm
property to set the alarm triggering criteria.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a 1-wire bus device. The 1-wire bus is a simple networking system created by Dallas Semiconductor that allows low-cost low-power communication over a single wire (plus ground). Power is often delivered "parasitically" from the same data line. Each device has a unique unalterable ID and can be individually addressed.
.PP
The
.B DS2413
allows control of other devices, like LEDs and relays. It differs from the
.I DS2405
with a cleaner interface and two channels
The
.I DS2413
also has two channels like the
.I DS2406
and
.I DS2407
but has no memory, and no alarm.
There is also varying types of switch and sensing in the
.I DS2408, DS2409, LCD, DS276x, DS2450.
.br
Unique among the switches, the
.I DS2413
can switch higher voltages, up to 28V.
.SH ADDRESSING
All 1-wire devices are factory assigned a unique 64-bit address. This address is of the form:
.TP
.B Family Code
8 bits
.TP
.B Address
48 bits
.TP
.B CRC
8 bits
.IP
.PP
Addressing under OWFS is in hexidecimal, of form:
.IP
.B 01.123456789ABC
.PP
where
.B 01
is an example 8-bit family code, and
.B 12345678ABC
is an example 48 bit address.
.PP
The dot is optional, and the CRC code can included. If included, it must be correct.
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2406.pdf
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2407.pdf
.SH FILES
.TP
libow.so
Library providing most of the OWFS system. Bus master control, data parsing, etc.
.TP
owfs
Filesystem implementation. User space, using the FUSE kernel module.
.TP
owhttpd
Web server implementation of the OWFS system.
.SH SEE ALSO
owfs(1)
owhttpd(1)
DS2401(3)
DS2502(3)
DS2505(3)
DS2506(3)
LCD(3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
