'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS2409 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS2409
- MicroLAN Coupler
.SH SYNOPSIS
1-wire network branch controller.
.HP
.B 1F
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B aux
|
.B branch.[0|1|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B control
|
.B discharge
|
.B event.[0|1|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B main
|
.B sensed.[0|1|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
1F
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS aux
.I directory
.br
This is the
.I aux
branch of the
.I DS2409
network branch. It is implicitly accessed (via the
.I aux smart-on
command) when it is listed or devices on this branch are addressed.
.SS branch.0 branch.1 branch.ALL branch.BYTE
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the branch (
.I 0=main
or
.I 1=aux
) currently connected to the master bus? Value returned is 1 (yes) or 0 (no). The
.I DS2409
should not allow both to be on simultaneously.
.br
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the properties, comma separated. It is an atomic operation.
.br
.I BYTE
is an aggregate of the branches as a byte, A is bit 0.
.SS control
.I read-write, unsigned integer
.br
Setting of the PIO
.I control
pin. There are 4 possible settings:
.TP
.B 0
Unconditionally off (non-conducting)
.TP
.B 1
Unconditionally on (conducting)
.TP
.B 2
Auto on when
.I main
branch switched in
.TP
.B 3
Auto on when
.I aux
branch switched in
.SS discharge
.I write-only, yes-no
.br
Writing a non-zero value to this property will electrically reset both the main and auxillary branches of the 1-wire bus by dropping power for 100 milliseconds. All devices on those branches will lose parasitic power and reset to power-up defaults.
.SS event.0 event.1 event.ALL event.BYTE
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Has the
.I event
flag for the branch been triggered? A negative edge on the disconnected branch (
.I 0=main
or
.I 1=aux
) sets the flag. Value returned is 1 (yes) or 0 (no).
.br
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the properties, comma separated. It is an atomic operation.
.br
.I BYTE
is an aggregate of the branches as a byte, A is bit 0.
.SS main
.I directory
.br
This is the
.I main
branch of the
.I DS2409
network branch. It is implicitly accessed (via the
.I main smart-on
command) when it is listed or devices on this branch are addressed.
.SS sensed.0 sensed.1 sensed.ALL sensed.BYTE
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Voltage sensed at the
.I 0=main
or
.I 1=aux
branch pin. Valid only when the branch is switched out. Value returned is 0 (low) or 1 (high).
.br
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the properties, comma separated. It is an atomic operation.
.br
.I BYTE
is an aggregate of the branches as a byte, A is bit 0.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.SS address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceeding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS present
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
None implemented.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a 1-wire bus device. The 1-wire bus is a simple networking system created by Dalla Semiconductor that allows low-cost low-power communication over a single wire (plus ground). Power is often delivered "parasitically" from the same data line. Each device has a unique unalterable ID and can be individually addressed.
.PP
The
.B DS2409
allows complex 1-wire network topology. Each branch has it's power preserved, even when isolated from the master. A separate PIO pin can be configured to show branch switching, or controlled explicitly.
.SH ADDRESSING
All 1-wire devices are factory assigned a unique 64-bit address. This address is of the form:
.TP
.B Family Code
8 bits
.TP
.B Address
48 bits
.TP
.B CRC
8 bits
.IP
.PP
Addressing under OWFS is in hexidecimal, of form:
.IP
.B 01.123456789ABC
.PP
where
.B 01
is an example 8-bit family code, and
.B 12345678ABC
is an example 48 bit address.
.PP
The dot is optional, and the CRC code can included. If included, it must be correct.
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2409.pdf
.SH FILES
.TP
libow.so
Library providing most of the OWFS system. Bus master control, data parsing, etc.
.TP
owfs
Filesystem implementation. User space, using the FUSE kernel module.
.TP
owhttpd
Web server implementation of the OWFS system.
.SH SEE ALSO
owfs(1)
owhttpd(1)
DS2401(3)
DS2502(3)
DS2505(3)
DS2506(3)
DS1992(3)
DS1993(3)
DS1995(3)
DS1996(3)
LCD(3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
