'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS2502 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS2502
- Add-Only Memory (1 kBit)
.br
.B DS2502-E48
- 48-bit Node Address Chip
.br
.B DS2502-UNW
- UniqueWare Add-Only Memory (1 kBit)
.br
.B DS1982
- Add-Only iButton (1 kBit)
.br
.B DS1982U
- UniqueWare iButton (1 kBit)
.SH SYNOPSIS
EPROM add-only memory.
.HP
.B 09
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B memory
|
.B page.[0-3|ALL]
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.HP
.B 89
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B mac_e
|
.B mac_fw
|
.B memory
|
.B page.[0-3|ALL]
|
.B project
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.TP
09
DS2502 DS1982
.TP
89
DS2502-UNW DS2502-E48 DS1982U
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS mac_e mac_fw
.I read-only, binary
.br
64 bit or 80 bit
.I media access control
number. Unique, and unrelated to the 1-wire address. It is apparently used for ethernet or FireWire addressing, respectively.
.SS memory
.I read-write, binary
.br
128 bytes of memory. Initially all bits are set to 1. Writing zero permanently alters the memory.
.SS page.0 ... page.3 page.ALL
.I read-write, yes-no
.br
Memory is split into 4 pages of 32 bytes each.
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the pages. Each page is accessed sequentially.
.SS project
.I read-only, binary
.br
32 bit
.I project
id. Constant 0x0000 for ethernet and  0x00001128 for firewire. See Datasheets.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.SS address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceeding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS present
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
None.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a 1-wire bus device. The 1-wire bus is a simple networking system created by Dalla Semiconductor that allows low-cost low-power communication over a single wire (plus ground). Power is often delivered "parasitically" from the same data line. Each device has a unique unalterable ID and can be individually addressed.
.PP
The
.B DS2502
is used for write-once incremental storage. It's main advantage is for audit trails (i.e. a digital purse).
.PP
The
.B DS2502-E48
and
.B DS2502-UNW
are some of the
.I UniqueWare
class of devices. Some of the memory was preprogramed at the factory. See the datasheet for specifics.  The
.B DS2502
,
.B DS2505
, and
.B DS2506
differ in their function by the amount of on-board memory they possess. (The internal protocols are slightly different, but the
.I OWFS
system handles this automatically.
.SH ADDRESSING
All 1-wire devices are factory assigned a unique 64-bit address. This address is of the form:
.TP
.B Family Code
8 bits
.TP
.B Address
48 bits
.TP
.B CRC
8 bits
.IP
.PP
Addressing under OWFS is in hexidecimal, of form:
.IP
.B 01.123456789ABC
.PP
where
.B 01
is an example 8-bit family code, and
.B 12345678ABC
is an example 48 bit address.
.PP
The dot is optional, and the CRC code can included. If included, it must be correct.
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2502.pdf
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2502-E48.pdf
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2502-UNW-DS2506S-UNW.pdf
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS1982-F3-DS1982-F5.pdf
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS1982U-DS1986U.pdf
.SH FILES
.TP
libow.so
Library providing most of the OWFS system. Bus master control, data parsing, etc.
.TP
owfs
Filesystem implementation. User space, using the FUSE kernel module.
.TP
owhttpd
Web server implementation of the OWFS system.
.SH SEE ALSO
owfs(3)
owhttpd(3)
DS2502(3)
DS2409(3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
