'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS2760 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS2760 DS2761 DS2762
- High-Precision Li+ Battery Monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
Temperature Voltage and Current.
.HP
.B 30
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B accumulator
|
.B current
|
.B offset
|
.B pages/page.[0-16|ALL]
|
.B PIO
|
.B sensed
|
.B temperature
|
.B typeX/range_low
|
.B typeX/range_high
|
.B typeX/temperature
|
.B volt
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.TP
30
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS accumulator
.I read-only, floating point
.br
Accumulated amperage read by current sensor. Units are in
.B Amp-hr
(Assumes internal resistor).
.SS current
.I read-only, floating point
.br
Current reading. Units are in
.B Amp
(Assumes internal resistor).
.SS offset
.I read-write, floating point
.br
Correction for
.I current
readings. Units are in
.B Amp
and can range from -.08 to +.08
.SS pages/page.0 ... pages/page.16 pages/page.ALL
.I read-write, binary
.br
Memory is split into 16 pages of 16 bytes each. Only some of that is available. See the datasheet for details.
.br
Some portions of memory are EEPROM backed. Recall from, and writing to EEPROM will be done transparently.
.br
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the pages. Each page is accessed sequentially.
.SS PIO
.I write-only, yes-no
.br
Controls the PIO pin allowing external switching.
.br
Writing "1" turns the PIO pin on (conducting). Writing "0" makes the pin non-conducting.
The logical state of the voltage can be read with the
.I sensed
property. This will reflect the current voltage at the pin, not the value sent to
.I PIO
.br
Note also that
.I PIO
will also be altered by the power-status of the
.I DS2670
See the datasheet for details.
.SS sensed
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
The logical voltage at the PIO pin. Useful only if the
.I PIO
property is set to "0" (non-conducting).
.br
Value will be 0 or 1 depending on the voltage threshold.
.SS typeX/
.I directory
.br
Thermocouple circuit using the 
.I  DS2760
to read the Seebeck voltage and the reference temperature. Since the type interpretation of the values read depends on the type of thermocouple, the correct directory must be chosen. Supported thermocouple types include types B, E, J, K, N, R, S and T.
.SS typeX/range_low typeX/ranges_high
.I read-only, flaoting point
.br
The lower and upper temperature supported by this thermocouple (at least by the conversion routines). In the globally chosen temperature units.
.SS typeX/temperature
.I read-only, floating point
.br
Thermocouple temperature. Requires a voltage and temperature conversion. Returned in globally chosen temperature units.
.br
Note: there are two types of temperature measurements possible. The 
.I temperature 
value in the main device directory is the reference temperature read at the chip. The 
.I typeX/temperature 
value is at the thermocouple junction, probably remote from the chip.
.SS temperature
.I read-only, floating point
.br
.I Temperature
read by the chip at high resolution (~13 bits). Units are selected from the invoking command line. See
.B owfs(1)
or
.B owhttpd(1)
for choices. Default is Celsius.
.br
Conversion is continuous.
.SS volt
.I read-only, floating point
.br
Voltage read between pins Vin and Vss. Units are in
.B Volt
.br
Range is between 0 and 4.75V
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.SS address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceeding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS present
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
None.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a 1-wire bus device. The 1-wire bus is a simple networking system created by Dalla Semiconductor that allows low-cost low-power communication over a single wire (plus ground). Power is often delivered "parasitically" from the same data line. Each device has a unique unalterable ID and can be individually addressed.
.PP
The
.B DS2760
is a class of battery charging controllers. There are minor difference between the
.B DS2760, DS2761
and
.B DS2760
battery chip. Current sensing is availble, but not implemented. The major advantage compared to the
.B DS2762
see Dallas Application Note 221.
.SH ADDRESSING
All 1-wire devices are factory assigned a unique 64-bit address. This address is of the form:
.TP
.B Family Code
8 bits
.TP
.B Address
48 bits
.TP
.B CRC
8 bits
.IP
.PP
Addressing under OWFS is in hexidecimal, of form:
.IP
.B 01.123456789ABC
.PP
where
.B 01
is an example 8-bit family code, and
.B 12345678ABC
is an example 48 bit address.
.PP
The dot is optional, and the CRC code can included. If included, it must be correct.
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2760.pdf
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/an/app221.pdf
.SH FILES
.TP
libow.so
Library providing most of the OWFS system. Bus master control, data parsing, etc.
.TP
owfs
Filesystem implementation. User space, using the FUSE kernel module.
.TP
owhttpd
Web server implementation of the OWFS system.
.SH SEE ALSO
owfs(1)
owhttpd(1)
DS18S20(3)
DS18B20(3)
DS1822(3)
DS2502(3)
DS2401(3)
DS2409(3)
DS2436(3)
DS1992(3)
DS1993(3)
DS1995(3)
DS1996(3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
