'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS2890 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS2890
- 1-Wire Digital Potentiometer
.SH SYNOPSIS
Variable resistance
.HP
.B 2C
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B chargepump
|
.B wiper
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.TP
2C
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS chargepump
.I read-write, yes-no
.br
State of the
.I chargepump
in the chip (0 = off 1 = on). Only available if external power is available (hence not in the TO-92 packaging) at pin Vdd.
.br
When
.I chargepump
is on, the
.I wiper
resistance will range between Rh and Rl relatively linearly.
.br
When
.I chargepump
is off, the
.I wiper
resitance (to ground) will range relatively linearly (to 100kOhms).
.SS wiper
.I read-write, unsigned integer
.br
Value of the variable element, 0 to 255. The actual interpretation of
.I wiper
depands on the
.I chargepump
state, but in general 0 is low and 255 is high.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.SS address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceeding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS present
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
None.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a 1-wire bus device. The 1-wire bus is a simple networking system created by Dalla Semiconductor that allows low-cost low-power communication over a single wire (plus ground). Power is often delivered "parasitically" from the same data line. Each device has a unique unalterable ID and can be individually addressed.
.PP
The
.B D2890
allows variable resistance under 1-wire control. Possible uses are analog feedback mechanisms (sound pitch, light level).
.P
Although there are provisions in the datasheet for different
.B DS2890
configurations (non-linear wiper ranges, multiple wipers, different resistance scales) non are in production. To simplify implementation, this driver assumes the standard
.B DS2890
design.
.SH ADDRESSING
All 1-wire devices are factory assigned a unique 64-bit address. This address is of the form:
.TP
.B Family Code
8 bits
.TP
.B Address
48 bits
.TP
.B CRC
8 bits
.IP
.PP
Addressing under OWFS is in hexidecimal, of form:
.IP
.B 01.123456789ABC
.PP
where
.B 01
is an example 8-bit family code, and
.B 12345678ABC
is an example 48 bit address.
.PP
The dot is optional, and the CRC code can included. If included, it must be correct.
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2890.pdf
.SH FILES
.TP
libow.so
Library providing most of the OWFS system. Bus master control, data parsing, etc.
.TP
owfs
Filesystem implementation. User space, using the FUSE kernel module.
.TP
owhttpd
Web server implementation of the OWFS system.
.SH SEE ALSO
owfs(1)
owhttpd(1)
DS18S20(3)
DS18B20(3)
DS1822(3)
DS2502(3)
DS2401(3)
DS2409(3)
DS2436(3)
DS1992(3)
DS1993(3)
DS1995(3)
DS1996(3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
