'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH LCD 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B LCD
- LCD controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
1-wire LCD controller by Louis Swart
.HP
.B FF
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B backlight
|
.B counters.[0-3,ALL]
|
.B cumulative.[0-3,ALL]
|
.B branch.[0-1,ALL]
|
.B data
|
.B gpio.[0-3,ALL]
|
.B LCDon
|
.B line16.[0-3,ALL]
|
.B line20.[0-3,ALL]
|
.B line40.[0-1,ALL]
|
.B memory
|
.B register
|
.B screen16
|
.B screen20
|
.B screen40
|
.B version
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
FF
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS backlight
.I write-only,yes-no
.br
Write a non-zero value to turn on the LCD backlight. Write zero to turn off.
.SS counters[0-3,ALL]
.I read-only,unsigned integer
.br
Read the number of times the gpio has been externally changed. If wired to a push switch, will count twice per button press. The LCD firmware resets all the counter when any one is read. Use the
.I ALL
extension to read them all, simultaneously, or use the
.I cumulative
property instead.
.br
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the properties, comma separated. Read atomically.
.SS cumulative[0-3,ALL]
.I read-write,unsigned integer
.br
Cumulative sum of the
.I counters
property. To reset, write a zero. The cumulative counter can have any value written, which allows preservation of counts accross program restarts if the value at program termination is stored.
.br
Reading
.I cumulative
will reset the
.I counters
property. All the cumulative counters will be updated so that no counts will be lost. Reads of
.I counters
can be interspersed without losing
.I cumulative
accuracy.
.br
Note:
.I cumulative
requires the
.I caching
system be compiled into libow.
.br
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the properties, comma separated.
.SS data
.I read-write,unsigned int
.br
Contents of the LCD data byte (see datasheet). Not usually needed.
.SS LCDon
.I write-only,yes-no
.br
Write a non-zero value to turn on the LCD screen (also clears). Write a zero to turn off.
.SS line16[0-3,ALL] line20[0-3,ALL] line40[0-1,ALL]
.I write-only,ascii
.br
Write text to the LCD screen. Assumes 16/20/40 char width. (Cannot be determined from controller).
.br
.I ALL
is an aggregate of the properties, comma separated. Each is set in turn.
.SS memory
.I read-write,binary
.br
112 bytes of on-board memory.
.SS register
.I read-write,unsigned int
.br
Contents of the LCD register (see datasheet). Not usually needed.
.SS screen16 screen20 screen40
.I write-only,ascii
.br
Write text to the LCD screen. Assumes 16/20/40 char width. (Cannot be determined from controller).
.br
.SS version
.I read-only,ascii
.br
Self-reported LCD controller version. 16 bytes.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.SS address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceeding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS present
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
None implemented.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a 1-wire bus device. The 1-wire bus is a simple networking system created by Dallas Semiconductor that allows low-cost low-power communication over a single wire (plus ground). Power is often delivered "parasitically" from the same data line. Each device has a unique unalterable ID and can be individually addressed.
.PP
The
.B LCD
controller is a microprocessor driven device that simulates the operation of 1-wire devices. It's creator has arbitrarily chosen the
.I family code
FF. The controller requires external power. Full details are available from the designer.
.br
The main draw of the
.B LCD
controller is as any easy way to provide output to users.
.SH ADDRESSING
All 1-wire devices are factory assigned a unique 64-bit address. This address is of the form:
.TP
.B Family Code
8 bits
.TP
.B Address
48 bits
.TP
.B CRC
8 bits
.IP
.PP
Addressing under OWFS is in hexidecimal, of form:
.IP
.B 01.123456789ABC
.PP
where
.B 01
is an example 8-bit family code, and
.B 12345678ABC
is an example 48 bit address.
.PP
The dot is optional, and the CRC code can included. If included, it must be correct.
.SH DATASHEET
.br
Available from http://www.dreamwater.org/biz/louisswart
.SH FILES
.TP
libow.so
Library providing most of the OWFS system. Bus master control, data parsing, etc.
.TP
owfs
Filesystem implementation. User space, using the FUSE kernel module.
.TP
owhttpd
Web server implementation of the OWFS system.
.SH SEE ALSO
owfs(3)
owhttpd(3)
DS2401(3)
DS2502(3)
DS2409(3)
DS2502(3)
DS2505(3)
DS2506(3)
DS1992(3)
DS1993(3)
DS1995(3)
DS1996(3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
