'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH OWHTTPD 1 2004 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B owhttpd
\- Tiny webserver for 1-wire control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B owhttpd
[
.I \-C
|
.I \-F
|
.I \-K
|
.I \-R
] [
.I \-r
|
.I \-w
]
.I \-d
serialport
.I | \-u
.I \-s
[host:]port
.I \-p
tcp-port
.br
.B owhttpd
[
.I \-C
|
.I \-F
|
.I \-K
|
.I \-R
] [
.I \-r
|
.I \-w
] [
.I \-t
timeout
] [
.I \-f
f[.]i[[.]c]
] [
.I \-\-background
|
.I \-\-foreground
] [
.I \-\-error_print
0|1|2|3 ] [
.I \-\-error_level
0|1|2|3|9 ] [
.I \-P \-\-pid-file
filename
]
.I \-d
serialport
.I | \-u
.I \-s
[host:]port
.I \-p
tcp-port
.br
.B owhttpd
.I \-h \-\-help
.br
.B owhttpd
.I \-\-morehelp
.br
.B owhttpd
.I \-V \-\-version
.I mountpoint
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B owhttpd
is a small webserver that shows the Dallas/Maxim 1-Wire bus attached to a serial port. The main view shows the devices found, You can then navigate to individual devices, and view/alter their properties.
.TP
There is optional data caching. Which can speed repeated access to the same 1wire properties (but is potentially confusing). Use the uncached links to see immediate values.
.TP
The underlying interface to the 1-wire bus is identical to OWFS -- the 1-wire filesystem for linux. Only the top layer has been modified to serve web pages instead of files. Development here, and support for new devices, will progress with that project.
.TP
The web server is a modified version of chttpd by Greg Olszewski. It serves no filesfrom the disk, only virtual files from the 1-wire bus. Security should therefore be good. Only the 1-wire bus is at risk.

.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.SS \-C \-\-Celsius | \-F \-\-Fahrenheit | \-K \-\-Kelvin | \-R \-\-Rankine
Temperature scale used for data output. Celsius is the default.
.SS \-r \-\-readonly
.SS \-w \-\-write
Do we allow writing to the 1-wire bus (writing memory, setting switches, limits, PIOs)? The
.I write
option is available for symetry, it's the default.
.SS \-d \-\-device "deviceport"
Sets the serial port. It should have a LINK, DS9097U or DS9097 (passive adapter) attached. The "-d" is implied if two arguments are supplied. (See examples).
.br
Note: multiple instances of
.I -d, -u, -s
are allowed. Each corresponds to a different 1-wire bus. The result will reflect the logical union of those buses.
.SS \-s [host:]port
Connect via tcp (network) to an
.I owserver
process that is connected to a physical 1-wire bus. This allows multiple processes to share the same bus. The
.I owserver
process can be local, or remote.
.br
Note: multiple instances of
.I -d, -u, -s
are allowed. Each corresponds to a different 1-wire bus. The result will reflect the logical union of those buses.
.SS \-u \-\-usb
Use the USB adapter (DS9490) as 1-wire bus master. An optional number 1,2,... specifies which adapter to use if more than one is present.
.br
Note: multiple instances of
.I -d, -u, -s
are allowed. Each corresponds to a different 1-wire bus. The result will reflect the logical union of those buses.
.SS \-p portnum
Sets the tcp port the web server runs on. Access with the URL http://servernameoripaddress:portnum
.SH HELP OPTIONS
.SS \-h \-\-help
Shows basic summary of options.
.SS \-\-morehelp
Show less common options.
.SS \-V \-\-version
.I Version
of this program and related libraries.
.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.SS \-\-background | \-\-foreground
Whether the program releases the console and runs in the
\.I background
after evaluating command line options.
.I background
is the default.
.SS \-\-error_print
.TP
.I 0
default mixed destination: stderr foreground / syslog background
.TP
.I 1
syslog only
.TP
.I 2
stderr only
.TP
.I 3
dev/null (supress all).
.SS \-\-error_level
.TP
.I 0
default errors only
.TP
.I 1
connections/disconnections
.TP
.I 2
all high level calls
.TP
.I 3
data summary for each call
.SS \-f \-\-format "f[.]i[[.]c]"
Display format for the 1-wire devices. Each device has a 8byte address, consisting of:
.TP
.I f
family code, 1 byte
.TP
.I i
ID number, 6 bytes
.TP
.I c
CRC checksum, 1 byte
.PP
Possible formats are
.I f.i
(default, 01.A1B2C3D4E5F6),
.I fi fic f.ic f.i.c
and
.I fi.c
.PP
All formats are accepted as input, but the output will be in the specified format.
.SS \-P \-\-pid-file "filename"
Places the PID -- process ID of owfs into the specified filename. Useful for startup scripts control.
.SS \-t \-\-timeout "seconds"
Set the number of seconds that volitile data (measured values like temperature and voltage) should be cached before requerying the BUS. More stable values will be saved ten times longer (switch settings, memory contents). 10 seconds is the default.
.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
owhttpd -p 3001 -d /dev/ttyS0
Web server runs on tcp port 3001, serial adapter at ttyS0
.TP
owhttpd -p 3001 -s littlehost:3001 --error_level=3
Web server on port 3001, from
.I owserver
process on host "littlehost", extensive error messages.
.TP
owhttpd -p 3001 -u -u2 -r
Read-only web server on port 3001, using two usb adapters.
.SH NOTES
See http://owfs.sourceforge.net for the current version.

.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
