'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH OWPERL 3 2004 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B owperl
\- perl interface for the 1-wire filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B OW.pm
.br
.B use OW ;
.br
.B OW::init(
.I interface
.B );
.br
.B OW::init(
.I initialization string
.B );
.PP
The full set of initialization options is extensive. They correspond roughly to the command line options of
,B owfs (1)
.B owhttpd (1)
and
.B owftpd (1)
.br
.B OW::get(
.I path
.B );
.br
.B OW::put(
.I path
.B ,
.I value
.B );
.br
.B OW::finish();
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.so description.3so
.SS owperl
.B owperl (3)
is a perl module that provides an interface to OWFS. The path to each 1-wire device is the same as
.B owfs (1)
. Only the top layer has been modified to return native perl strings.
.PP
.B owperl (3)
is created by
.B swig (1)
(http://www.swig.org) which can be easily modified to support other programming languages.
.SH FUNCTIONS
.SS OW::init( interface )
.I interface
.br
Location of the 1-wire bus:
.TP
"u"
Direct connection to the 1-wire interface on the USB port --
.I DS9490
.TP
/dev/ttySx
Direct connection to a 1-wire interface on the serial port --
.I DS9097U
or
.I DS9097
.TP
port | :port | IPaddress:port
Location of an
.I owserver
daemon that connects to the 1-wire bus. Multiple
.I owperl
as well as
.I owfs
and
.I owhttpd
programs can access the
.I owserver
process simultaneously. In fact, this will probably be the prefered mode of access to OWFS for
.I owperl
except in trivial applications.
.SH EXAMPLE
perl -MOW -e "OW::init('/dev/ttyS1'); printf OW::get('\');"
.SH SEE ALSO
.so seealso.3so
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://www.owfs.org
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
