'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Program manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.SH TIME OPTIONS
Timeouts for the bus masters were previously listed in
.I Device options.
Timeouts for the cache affect the time that data stays in memory. Default values are shown.
.SS --timeout_volatile=15
Seconds until a 
.I volatile 
property expires in the cache. Volatile properties are those (like temperature) that change on their own.
.PP
Can be changed dynamically at 
.I /settings/timeout/volatile
.SS --timeout_stable=300
Seconds until a 
.I stable 
property expires in the cache. Stable properties are those that shouldn't change unless explicitly changed. Memory contents for example.
.PP
Can be changed dynamically at 
.I /settings/timeout/stable
.SS --timeout_directory=60
Seconds until a 
.I directory 
listing expires in the cache. Directory lists are the 1-wire devices found on the bus.
.PP
Can be changed dynamically at 
.I /settings/timeout/directory
.SS --timeout_presence=120
Seconds until the
.I presence
and bus location of a 1-wire device expires in the cache.
.PP
Can be changed dynamically at 
.I /settings/timeout/presence
.P
.B There are also timeouts for specific program responses:
.SS --timeout_server=5
Seconds until the expected response from the
.B owserver (1)
is deemed tardy.
.PP
Can be changed dynamically at 
.I /settings/timeout/server
.SS --timeout_ftp=900
Seconds that an ftp session is kept alive.
.PP
Can be changed dynamically at 
.I /settings/timeout/ftp
