'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (palfille@earthlink.net)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No waranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\" $Id$
'\"
.TH DS2415 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS2415
- 1-Wire Time Chip
.br
.B DS1904
- RTC iButton
.br
.B DS2417
- 1-Wire Time Chip with Interrupt
.SH SYNOPSIS
Real time clock.
.HP
.B 24
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B counter
|
.B date
|
.B flags
|
.B running
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.HP
.B 27
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B counter
|
.B date
|
.B enable
|
.B interval
|
.B itime
|
.B running
|
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B present
|
.B type
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.TP
24
DS2415 DS1904
.TP
27
DS2417
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS counter
.I read-write, unsigned integer
.br
Time represented as a number.
.I counter
increments once per second, while
.I running
is on.
.br
Usually set to unix time standard: number of seconds since Jan 1, 1970. The
.I date
field will be the unix representation of
.I counter
and setting either will change the other.
.SS date
.I read-write, ascii
.br
26 character date representation of the
.I counter
value. Increments once per second while
.I running
.br
Setting
.I date
to a null string will put the current system time.
.br
Accepted date formats are:
.br
  Sat[urday] March 12 12:23:59 2001
.br
  Apr[il] 4 9:34:56 2002
.br
  3/23/04 23:34:57
.br
  current locale setting (your system's format)
.SS enable
.I read-write, yes-no
.br
State of the timer interrupt. 0=off 1=running.
.SS interval
.I read-write, unsigned integer
.br
Interval between timer interrupts. Values: 0-7. See table under
.I DESCRIPTION
for interpretation.
.I itime
will reflect the
.I interval
chosen.
.SS itime
.I read-write, unsigned integer
.br
Interval between timer interrupts. Value in seconds. See table under
.I DESCRIPTION
for interpretation and acceptable values.
.I interval
will reflect the
.I itime
chosen.
.SS flags
.I read-write, unsigned integer
.br
General use data. 4 bits (0-15 accepted values).
.SS running
.I read-write, yes-no
.br
State of the clock. 0=off 1=running.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.SS address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceeding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexidecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS present
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
None implemented.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a 1-wire bus device. The 1-wire bus is a simple networking system created by Dalla Semiconductor that allows low-cost low-power communication over a single wire (plus ground). Power is often delivered "parasitically" from the same data line. Each device has a unique unalterable ID and can be individually addressed.
.PP
The
.B DS2415
and
.B DS1904
are simple clocks that can be read on the 1-wire bus. They can also be used the time an event, for remote confirmation.
.P
The
.B DS2417
has the same clock function, but also includes a programmable interval interrupt. Values Allowed are:
.br
0 1sec
.br
1 4sec
.br
2 32s = .5m
.br
3 6 = 1m
.br
4 2048s = .5h
.br
5 4096s = 1h
.br
6 65536s = 18h
.br
7 131072s = 36h
.SH ADDRESSING
All 1-wire devices are factory assigned a unique 64-bit address. This address is of the form:
.TP
.B Family Code
8 bits
.TP
.B Address
48 bits
.TP
.B CRC
8 bits
.IP
.PP
Addressing under OWFS is in hexidecimal, of form:
.IP
.B 01.123456789ABC
.PP
where
.B 01
is an example 8-bit family code, and
.B 12345678ABC
is an example 48 bit address.
.PP
The dot is optional, and the CRC code can included. If included, it must be correct.
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2415.pdf
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS1904.pdf
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2417.pdf
.SH FILES
.TP
libow.so
Library providing most of the OWFS system. Bus master control, data parsing, etc.
.TP
owfs
Filesystem implementation. User space, using the FUSE kernel module.
.TP
owhttpd
Web server implementation of the OWFS system.
.SH SEE ALSO
owfs(3)
owhttpd(3)
DS2401(3)
DS2502(3)
DS2505(3)
DS2506(3)
DS1992(3)
DS1993(3)
DS1995(3)
DS1996(3)
LCD(3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://owfs.sourceforge.net
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
