.\" $Id$
.TH OWHTTPD 8
.SH OWHTTPD
owfs \- 1-wire filesystem.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B owfs
.I \-h
.I -f
format
.I \-d
serialport
.I | \-u
.I -t
timeout
.I mountpoint
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B owfs
is a user-space filesystem that shows the Dallas/Maxim 1-Wire bus attached to a serial port. The main directory shows the devices found, You can then navigate to individual devices, and view/alter their properties.
.TP
There is optional data caching. Which can speed repeated access to the same 1wire properties (but is potentially confusing). Use the uncached directory to see immediate values.
.TP
The underlying interface to the 1-wire bus is identical to OWHTTPD -- the 1-wire web server. Only the top layer has been modified to serve files instead of web pages. Development here, and support for new devices, will progress with that project.
.TP
The 1-wire file system is a modified version of fuse examples by Miklos Szeredi. It is now single-threaded, and serves no files. Security should therefore be good. Only the 1-wire bus is at risk. The fuse library and kernel module is needed. (See http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/avf).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-d \-\-device "serialport"
Sets the serial port. It should have a LINK, DS9097U or DS9097 (passive adapter) attached. The "-d" is implied if two arguments are supplied. (See examples). The
.I \-d
and
.I \-u
options are mutually exclusive.
.TP
.B \-u \-\-usb
Use the USB adapter (DS9490) as 1-wire bus master. An optional number 1,2,... specifies which adapter to use if more than one is present.
.TP
.B \-t seconds
Set the number of seconds that volitile data (measured values like temperature and voltage) should be cached before requerying the BUS. More stable values will be saved ten times longer (switch settings, memory contents).
.TP
.B \-C \-\-Celsius | \-F \-\-Fahrenheit | \-K \-\-Kelvin | \-R \-\-Rankine
Temperature scale used for data output.
.TP
.B \-f \-\-format "format"
Display format for the 1-wire devices. Each device has a 8byte address, consisting of 1byte
.I f
amily code, 6 byte
.I I
D number, and 1 byte
.I C
RC checksum.
.PP
Possible formats are
.I f.i
(default, 01.A1B2C3D4E5F6),
.I fi fic f.ic f.i.c
and
.I fi.c
.PP
All formats are accepted as input, but the output will be in the specified format.
.SH EXAMPLE
owfs -d /dev/ttyS0 /mnt/1wire
.TP
owfs /dev/ttyS0 /mnt/1wire

.SH NOTES
See http://owfs.sourceforge.net for the current version.

.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (palfille@earthlink.net)
